congratulations to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
Republic for which it stands one nation
under God indivisible with liberty and
justice for all
right
the chair calls for approval of the
agenda I'll make a motion to approve the
agenda
uh Rusty Bramble makes a motion to
approve the agenda Vice chair Brown
seconds I have a comment on it
according to um Idaho code
this meeting's supposed to be if public
it is a public meeting that is supposed
to be permitted to for people to
physically attend it and yes streaming
is counted as part of that but if if
there are people in the audience back
there in the hallway who cannot hear
this then we are violating open meeting
law
okay and it is I'm finding the code
we're at but it is sept under 74 and
tickets to oh
six and it actually I'm reading actually
looking at it also from the Idaho
Freedom foundations
a article that was done by Matt tobic
it's September 10 2020 and it actually
comes from the Idaho Freedom Foundation
saying that they were quoting the code
and saying transparency and public
participation in government was critical
okay
any further debate
all those emotions all those in favor of
approving the agenda as stated please
say aye all right those opposed nay nay
okay the agenda's adopted
the chair calls for a motion to go into
executive session
I'll make a motion when we go into
executive session okay well let me
finish reading it okay executive session
as provided for in Idaho code
74-206 subsection 1A personal matters
Personnel matters sorry
okay five seconds okay first and a
second
that Mr Randall did not make a promotion
after you finished right okay
or go into executive session
for
for Idaho code
742061a Personnel matters
I second that okay
can we do a roll call
um
Staffing
a trustee Barton
here
trustee Hall nay
Vice chair Brown
here
chair Rutledge here
trusty landfold here I'm here but I am
declaring a nay also
okay
we're now an executive session
um you cannot be because you have to
need two-thirds majority to go into
executive session per kite Idaho code
just does not
everything I've looked up and looked at
this does not mean does not meet
74206 a
um if we're if we're reviewing and
accepting the contract
um that it does it needs to be done in
Open Session
reviewing the contract is it's not
still confidential until it's ratified
it needs to I actually also researched
it in terms of what boundary County does
and other people do they do need to look
at the contract needs to be published
and does need to be reviewed in Open
Session
and um it does not meet under this code
and then
so it can be reviewed out front if Mr
Durst has already signed it then it has
already been accepted we have to do our
deliberation in public
Okay so
okay chair calls for five minute recess
I will check that
because my understanding is that this
has basically been finalized and that
what we're looking at is to review it
and not change anything so if that's the
case then it needs to be done in Open
Session okay
and I will make a motion to bring that
out to the floor
and I will second that motion okay
all those in favor of bringing it out to
the floor please say aye
aye those opposed okay
so
you cannot go into executive session
with two um with this it has to go into
executive session but it's already
all right
send it home
um
okay I want chair calls for 500 resets
[Music]
foreign
thank you
incentive
no because
when I was talking about evaluation
it's your own policy you guys are
violating they're not allowed us
because
um
months
foreign
5914 this the document that we're in
question is not public domain until 10
days after ratification
as far as blowing an executive session
we don't need a two-thirds
74 206 executive session is the first
one under number one and executive
session shall be authorized by
two-thirds vote of governing board and
executive session may be held
all right
all right so do you move to make this
public I move to make this public
okay can I second that
was in favor
aye aye
aye
um
are you
all right okay
and like to ask requests that Stephie
bring up the contract so the public can
see it
did you know it sir
change
it
foreign
you should hold on yeah
that was great it works better
I like it but you know yeah
do that
it's already comfortable with it there
huh
okay
okay yeah
[Music]
we did our best
Republican
chair Rutledge which one would you like
displayed first
um
foreign
yesterday
wow
series
maybe something
foreign
this is
that right
and let them decide
let's see
we've never done two years
conviction
um
foreign
Administration
yesterday
border policy 6100
have you reviewed them everything yes
okay thank you all right
okay this this contract was negotiated
by myself and
trustee uh Barton
this contract was negotiated between
myself
trustee Barton and Brandon Durst and it
was reviewed by legal counsel except for
two points
what's that two points
okay
from legal council there was verbiage
changed
who's legal counsel
legal counsel was Chris Jorgensen
law offices in Boise Idaho
and actually it's three changes because
I said that I specifically did not
approve or I was not on board with a
two-year contract unless
someone from the School Board
Association or a local lawyer looked at
it to make sure that
um
it would not come back on us financially
as a district and it would be a
a no
um
there would be no lawsuits or financial
obligations after a year if you did not
if we chose not to renew his contract
I
and also the spouse
and I believe also the qualifying
designation
on that be
part five or part eight termination of
employment contract B other qualifying
designations was eliminated from my copy
that I had
oh I apologize oops
um
this is this was the agreed upon
agreement for the for the negotiation
committee
she didn't agree
I changed it for a lawyer
um clarification on a clear wait wait
clarification on the lawyer you said
Chris jorgens Jorgensen and Boise
um I'd like to know
um Mr Durst lawyer and the freedom
foundations lawyer simultaneously I want
to make sure there's no conflict of
interest there with the with the lawyer
that has been reviewing this
especially if it's the lawyer that the
district will be that will be
representing our district
okay there is this this lawyer did not
come through the Idaho Freedom
Foundation
um who recommended the lawyer the
attorney or the law firm
so who recommended the lawyer
um excuse me for clarification I just
where did the um
where was the attorney where did the
recommendation for the attorney come
from I know that you the board the
majority of the board gave you
permission to do that but I still my and
my question regarding the attorney where
the recommendation came from I'm still
curious and that my my question hasn't
been answered
um
Stephen Lambert
okay with the academy that came up here
to present
um back in last December okay that was
one recommendation if you came
recommended by several people okay
um so
in terms of the contract there are a
couple of things I did find I did reach
out to I crimp
and did get a statement or an email from
iprimp regarding their spouse and under
our eye cream policy the spouse would
not be covered
and I did receive an email from our
underwriter coordinator
and he basically said
and then we'll read it into the record
um
oops it got dropped off
um I mean
I'm gonna get my phone because that
piece of it um dropped off when I
printed it out
um
you know it got topped off and excuse me
I'm just looking up the email received
from the underwriter
um
he said I asked my question to him was
to ask have you seen policies for local
Idaho jurisdiction school districts or
other entities where the spouse is
indemnified and the insurance policy
covers the expenses of the spouse even
though Idaho was a community property
say this seems as if it's including such
Dane language is a dangerous precedent
his response back was I all I can speak
to is the eye crimp policy and the
definition of insured in the general
definitions in eye policy does not
include the word spouse
so it does it is not included in our
district policy it would have to be if
there was any suit brought against
um
it it's not appropriate it sets
precedent that we should not be setting
to include the spouse okay can you hear
the arguments
um again I also am not with the two-year
I mean if we're looking at the addendum
I can't accept a two-year I cannot
accept a two-year with automatic renewal
we do not know there's no qualifi
there's no
um
there is no set
since this person is coming within with
an emergency provisional to start with
there's no no guarantee and potentially
there's no guarantee that it will be
satisfied to be moving forward with this
person after a year or any during if he
does not receive it so I don't think it
should be automatically renewal it
should not tie the hands of the district
to be able to go out and get look for
another
superintendent if if the
um if there is not a Idaho
superintendent certification or
provisional certification
provided and approved okay
any further arguments
um
well I think it's a mute point anyways
because
6100 I just looked it up and it says
that it does not allow
automatic renewal it has to be
this it said it has to be
the board will conduct a written formal
evaluation at least annually
and at that point we would be able to
vote
of a majority to
continue with the contract or
offer a different contract
and then the other item is if on in
terms of the addendum
I would strike under benefits number c i
mean I think this person seems that
these being part of the membership to
the Idaho Association of school
administrators and Americans associate
of school administrators
potentially is not should not be paid
for I think I understand that
um I
that shouldn't be paid for I think if um
it's in the same vein if people see that
Idaho School Board Association is
somewhat similar to the Idaho
Association of school administrators
American associate School administrators
a membership in terms of Association
needs to be struck as a perk
I can understand why there's critical
um ex you know there's
there's benefit to being part of that
membership but I guess what I'm looking
at is what's good for the goose is good
for the gander
any further
and
well again and um eight B
other qualifying designation
which allow them to conduct the duties
of a superintendent
the research that I did even under a
provisional certification he will not be
fully able to complete the
superintendent
duties but
we want to make sure with our verbiage
there that we are pretty specific that
was specifically
um put in there by the lawyer
which what line
um
so the one one thing here is that I
would also include maybe there is that
at this point
Mr Durst does not have the capability of
doing the evaluation of key staff and
under the emergency provisional which is
um he he does not meet the
qualifications for special ed
certification he's not going to be able
to evaluate the special ed director or
that staff and that will be by federal
code so he's going to be limited on what
he can do and as if he has to evaluate
as prior superintendents have had to
evaluate stat because they also put our
principles they are not able to evaluate
that he will not be able to evaluate the
staff appropriately okay so those are
basically at this those are my comments
and then the final one on the main
superintendent contract
I do want to know where the 110
000 came from in terms of our ladder or
salary ladder for administrators and how
that was calculated
and I'd be curious on that one that was
it agreed upon term because of the state
of Idaho's average and in addition to
our new style reschedule for
superintendents and administrators
all right okay any further debate
all those in favor of accepting this
contract is written please say aye all
right
for things and you're ignoring me
and you're willing to break the law
and board policy thank you
thank you
to you
if policy is broken does that mean you
want does that mean that the decision
that's made is called avoid
yes yes
I'm gonna make balls up just
looks at Margaret she's got all the
information on there
foreign
meeting law it would be under the open
meeting law and um
it's
there's I want to say there's a good
chance that it could be null and boy I
mean that's I think that's the but it
is
an interim superintendent
um
why do you have a committee
the two of them
have these conversations and then you
would divert to someone else
and bring it forward and do that to your
other board member why do we just do
such a thing is because it's not that
complicated to hire an attorney
all right
into the register and losing insurance
for our entire District
gets I don't understand
she's not an employee
there was a lawyer that looked at it he
agreed with it
doesn't a lawyer have
that
yeah it's
I have serious reservations or
underwriter or insurance underwriter
coordinator said that person wasn't
going to be covered if we do believe it
if it is left in the if it is left in
the agreement or in the contract then it
has to be noticed that noted that the
school district is going to be on the
hook and I mean and it's also setting
precedent I think a greater part is that
it's setting precedent that it doesn't
matter if Mr Durst or it doesn't matter
who it is by putting that in there
you're setting precedent for future your
Senate President and future
superintendent's addendums and I think
that's a bad policy to be setting and I
also you know that's what I'm looking at
is it's a bad it's not good policy to be
setting for us as a precedent especially
when on
you know our underwriter said it's not
covered and I think the other thing is
the two-year
we do not know
if the what is going to happen and we
know if it's an emergency
provisional if that's after a year we
also know that this the state of or the
state of Idaho will not pay at this
point for the Emergency provisional
um
salary
we can pretend that if something might
change but we cannot make a decision on
the current contract based on something
we don't know is going to happen for
sure in the future it's already covered
under
section
8D
we'll play
that is determination that his contract
would be terminated if he cannot
extend his contract but that's not true
because it says in the additional
verbiage that you put in there was or
qualifying designations that is a huge
realm of designations
that can come back on this District that
we financially cannot support
and in addition to that I can read I was
very concerned about the spouse to begin
with and I did ask when we negotiated on
my contract it was marked off on case it
was not so this was what we discussed
prior
and um he asked Mr Durst to send me an
email that I could read why he did that
so we can put that on um
we can make that a public record
he said sure
I Idaho is a community property State
understandable as such if someone were
to file a civil lawsuit against me
stemming from something that I did in my
official capacity as superintendent that
lawsuit could also implicate my wife
what's up subsequently without the
provisions in the contract my wife and I
would be forced to hire an additional
attorney to represent my wife's
interests even though the lawsuit was
related to my employment
that could then require a I'm going to
not say this word right a bifurcation
bifurcation of the case because of my
representation would not be permitted to
defend my wife's interest that would
increase costs for everyone it is
critical to read the context in which
the provisions exist if it I'm sorry it
is specifically limited to legal action
that commences solely in response as my
role as superintendent this is a very
common language to include in these
sorts of contracts
he also includes further we didn't
discuss it during our negotiations and
so to change it at this point and time
seems inappropriate I hope that explains
it that explains his side of it I'm
fairly confident that we went over it it
was crossed off on mine but what I did
in my the research that I did and
I couldn't find any other contracts on
any other
websites for superintendents that
included their staff so this is not
common practice in school public school
districts
what was that
what you said
Coeur D'alene School District
did somebody say something from the
background are they are they insured by
it
well it's a good thing they love you
past it isn't it yeah
all right
which we can't we can't handle that
burden
so
I make a motion
[Music]
people like
okay
no
unless they say this is the underwriter
the underwriter coordinator down in
Boise
I'm sorry I was wondering if we if
there's a way to do it where that would
upon being verified by the
insurance providers yeah and I can
forward the message I've got so I mean
we could still go ahead and do this but
that part would be
um
yes upon verification
is that is that
okay
so in that way if they
and then
we need to do something with this
contract
okay
it's your policy
just chill
she doesn't show up
I make a motion
I need I need someone to make a motion
I'm sorry I need someone to make a
motion to accept this contract
with the
um with automatic renewal removed
okay I make a motion to accept it with
the automatically listen
[Music]
okay
I make a motion that we approve this
contract with the correction of the or
the change of the automatic overrule is
that what you're renewal yeah
I have whatever okay
um
I would if you'd like me to I can make a
motion this is
so I will make a motion and put emotion
out on the table
that the spouse can be included for
approval by eye crimp
other qualifying designations is
eliminated
um to your contract pending per code or
per board policy 6100
um with let me find it really quick
sorry
with a written formal evaluation
annually
instead of automatically renewed
each fiscal year
and does the
um I need to do and then I have a
question
but it needs to be second
okay so we have those are a second come
on guys I want to go home
okay
so quick I think that if there's no
automatic renewal that this agreement is
for one year no automatic renewal and
that and then if that's the case then
the cover this is the addendum but the
contract itself needs to say one year
not two years on this the July 1st 2023
through June 30th um 20 24th
would you like to amend the motion I'd
like to mend the motion to clarify that
it um on the front the superintendent
contract itself not the addendum that is
a period for one year starting July 1st
um to an extending and ending
um June 30th 2024 epic epic given salary
is that is that the amended that's the
amended because we need to to the
amendment would be in the entire
agreement making it one year no no
automatic renewal and then making sure
that it is one year in the
superintendent contract the front page
of the superintendent contracts up there
only for one year
and I am for one year all those in favor
say aye
aye aye
um
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you
so this is the this is the change this
is the change to the amendment I'll
second that I vote yay okay got it
I'm I to the amendment but we still need
to do the full contract correct
yes okay
I was in favor of the full contract say
I
um I think somebody else has to make a
motion to do
um somebody else has to make a motion
okay I need a motion to accept the full
contract
didn't we just
with amendments
I'll make a motion
to accept the full contract with the
amendments
spouse is included per approval by eye
Karam other qualifying destinations is
eliminated one-year contract renewal per
policy 6100
for annual with a written formal annual
evaluation
and then
I think
and then that well there's three
different contracts so the main contract
that would be my motion
and I need to make an amendment to that
emotion sorry that motion because you
said per approval by I crimp and I want
to say at no additional cost to the
district okay
I second that Amendment
at no additional cost to the district I
couldn't approve it but it would cost it
it could cost us more in our policy so
I'm just saying that it's at no
additional cost to the distance
there might be a stipulation where we
might want to cover it
and then you're rolling that out right
now
there's a second to the amendment on the
table
yes
all those in favor say aye aye those
opposed
nay
all right
what
you thought to accept it or not
it will be right it's with the amended
Amendment it's down to it one year no
automatic renewal
um the eye crimp but
um
for eye crimp but no additional cost and
then I think there was other qualifying
designations on the
as struck contract as struck
everything else is what it was before
and then the front cover the front the
the front contract for the one year but
that was already approved okay so that
wasn't changed that was a majority of
the board had already approved that
we're talking just human addendum yes
the addendum
individually okay
all right
and we have no issues with the first
page
yeah thank you
right now so that's for the 1000 for
three days
um
I have no no objection to that
I object to that I mean I would take
them individually I would take each one
individually and put them on the table
I do don't see a reason for three days
of you know having three somebody had
three days on the books
and then there's three days left
for Budget negotiations
um we have to we we don't have budget
negotiations of budget hearing or budget
hearing I'm sorry
so I think it was
Stephanie for clarification where both
of the individual contracts on the front
page do you have them down is being
motioned and approved the first two
contracts one for three days and the one
for one year
one year one year
we just want to make sure that's on the
record appropriately and we probably
should do a roll call I would suggest
so which one are you doing you have to
speak up I apologize
I make a motion that we
rescind all of the previous motions and
start over I'll second that yeah
so because quite honestly it's very
convoluted yeah so yes I'll second that
okay all those in favor of resending the
previous motions and starting over
please say aye aye
[Music]
okay
the
I will make a motion
for the superintendent contract
that gives a beginning date of July 1st
of 2023
extending for a one-year contract
June 30th
as is except for the one year
I will second that one
I need them I need a motion to amend
that motion
to extend it a two-year contract
okay
so so chair Rutledge there is a motion
on the table with a second for a
one-year contract at 110 000 extending
from July 1st to 2023 to June 30th of
2024.
all those in favor of the motion on the
floor for a one-year contract
can you say aye aye aye those opposed
okay
I need a motion to accept the contract
with the Amendments with the exception
of of making a two-year contract
yeah
I'm sorry
that would be again support policy 6100
that says we can't remove we can't
automatically do it but it can be a
two-year contract
does a good job
then why do we have the why why are we
worried about a two-year contract then
it's not standard
Okay so
um I need a motion to accept the amended
contract with two years
um sorry
this is already becoming very long
I make a motion to accept the contract
with two years
and with the provision
of the spouse after we get the
information back from iprimp to approve
second okay and what's in a second on
the floor for accepting the modified
contract can we clarify that just one
more time I'm sorry I didn't hear the
full motion was it spouse per eye cramp
sorry yes and then the other qualifying
designations two-year
not automatic but with correct
written evaluation written evaluation
annually
[Music]
yes
all those in favor say aye
aye aye those opposed nay nay okay the
contract is adopted
okay next on the agenda is
um
to consider consideration approval of
Declaration of state of emergency I need
a motion to declare a state of emergency
okay four
um
for Declaration of emergency if
necessary
because it may be necessary but probably
not more
[Applause]
um
I'm sorry
for uh provisional uh certification
that's why we're declaring it
I'd like to open it up for debate
do I have a motion technology
make a motion
I make a motion
it's not what I want to say which it is
clear a state of emergency
okay I have a first and a second to
declare a state of emergency
I'd like to debate
all those in favor say yeah uh I would
like to debate
I'd like to make a statement okay
I'd like to make a statement for public
record before proceeding on with the
state of emergency
I do not see a need for our district to
declare a state of emergency at this
time after last night last night's work
session our community will potentially
fill the gaps from our failed Levy and
our unused Esser phones
from our failed Levy and we could use
our Esser funds to cover the rest we
currently have a candidate and
potentially a few others in the district
that are certified and able to fill as
an interim superintendent position
furthermore
from the research I have done the
superintendent candidate that was voted
in is not currently qualified or able to
fulfill all the duties of a Public
School Superintendent even with an
emergency certification
I was voted in by the board this fall to
fill the zone 5 trustee position my
goals at this time I felt aligned with
the majority of our trustees Iran is a
common sense constitutional conservative
that wanted to give my zone a voice I
currently feel the lack of transparency
from the leadership of this board is
very concerning my goal was to offer a
unique perspective as a teacher and
parent My Hope was to unite the board
employees of the district and the
community
yet the District of our yet the
direction of our board has turned into a
fascist dictatorship with an agenda
Which is far from our conservative point
of view in no way
open to uniting the board employees of
this District or Community the direction
or agenda that has been kept from the
members not only from the board
but our community I feel it's not only
necessary but our jobs as school board
trustee is to be transparent no matter
what our opinion may be
I went to the superintendent contract
negotiation with an open mind to
represent our board and Community I see
now that no matter what was negotiated
it would have been changed to best fit
the new direction or agenda of our
leaders
my heart has always been to fight for
our kids
and what I feel is right
I felt led by faith
to take on this very important
responsibility
I thought I had a good idea
of why I was living faith to be in this
role and now I have a better
understanding I'm here to continue to
fight for our community as a whole for
what is good and right against evil and
hidden agendas that will further divide
our community
so again I do not see a need for our
district to declare a state of emergency
at this time our community will stand up
all those in favor of declaring a state
of emergency say aye aye aye those
opposed nay nay
I need a motion
to uh during this meeting make a motion
we adjourn this community okay second
thing grab the first and the second
meeting adjourned okay
take 10 minutes and we'll start here